# Branches

A branch is a seperate version of the main repo that has no effect on the main repo.

Once work on the branch is complete, it can then be merged into the main repo.

To create new branches

`git branch <branch-name>`

Example:

`git branch develop`

To check all current branches

`git branch`

Once you run this command, the ouput should look like this:

```
  develop
* master
```

The `*` means it is the current branch you are on.

To move to a different branch

`git checkout <branch-name>`

Example: 

`git checkout develop`

To create a branch off of an existing branch, first select that branch

`git checkout develop`

Then use `-b` tag with `branch`

`git branch -b develop2`

This will create a branch called **develop2** from **develop**

***NEVER WORK ON THE MASTER BRANCH DIRECTLY***

## Merging branches

To merge the **develop** branch into the **master** branch.

First, change the currnet branch to **master** branch.

`git checkout master`

Then, merge the branches

`git merge develop`

## Deleting branches

If a branch is no longer needed, delete it using `-d` tag.

`git branch -d develop`

## Conflicting branches

When there is a conflict when merging files, You can open the conflicted file in an IDE and edit changes there.

Once done, stage the file again and commit.

# Forks

A fork is a copy of an existing project. It is similiar to branch but the main difference being, A forked repo is under your ownership, a branch is still under the ownership of the original person.


It is not a command in `git cli`, instead it is a feature in Github.

## Clone

Now that we have our fork of someone else's project. We can clone it to our local machine using `clone`. This downloads everything from the repo, including all logging and versions of the repo.


To clone a repo, use `clone` command

`git clone https://github.com/SokvisalMong/LearningGit.git`

Once you clone a repo, you won't have permission to change anything from that origin.

We can add our own origin to make changes to, for example our fork.

You can check the remotes by using the `-v` tag with `remote`

`git remote -v`

First, rename the current origin to something else, a common term used is **upstream**

`git remote rename origin upstream`

This will rename the **origin** to **upstream**

Then, upload the new repo link

`git remote add origin https://github.com/SecondVisal/LearningGit.git`

You can check if it worked by running

`git remote -v`

Now we should have 2 remotes:

- Upstream: The original, read only source.

- Origin: Our fork, read/write access.

After we finish with our fork, we can push it to the online repo.

`git push origin`

We can then go to Github and submit a pull request.

Always include proper explanation in the PR.