# Reading `git log`

First, We can check the logs to see at which point we want to go back to.

`git log --oneline`

_`--oneline` is used to summarize everything into, well, 1 line._

You're output should look something like this

```bash
e8c76f5 (HEAD -> testing, origin/testing) testing
96c7f5b (origin/main, main) Create test3.py
33c2758 Merge branch 'main' of https://github.com/SokvisalMong/LearningGit
1cf4641 Create test2.py
a61546a (test2) test2 testing
1434e2d hello world line
38924be (origin/develop) Add test.py
```

The first 7 characters `e8c76f5` is the commit hash.

Followed by the commit message itself.

# Git Revert

Reverting to a previous commit creates a new commit because of it. The keeps what we were working on before reverting in a seperate commit.

***NEEDS TO BE FACT CHECKED I AM INCOMPETENT***

## Reverting to the latest commit

To revert to the latest commit

`git revert HEAD --no-edit`

## Reverting further back

To revert to even further back

`git revert HEAD~<x>`

`x` being a number representing how many commits back it is.

Example: Reverting to 4 commits ago

`git revert HEAD~3`

# Git Reset

Resetting to a previous commit does not create a new commit. This discards what we were working on completely.

First, Identify the commit hash you want to reset back to.

Example: `e8c76f5`

Then you can reset using `reset`

`git reset <commithash>`

Example:

`git reset e8c76f5`

***It is not recommended to do this on a team project/online repo***

## Undo a reset

Although the commit you were working on is no longer in `log`.

You can still go back to it, if you know the commit hash for it.

# Git Amend

To modify a previous commit, use the `--amend` tag.

Example case: You have typos in your commit message

`git commit -m "Adingg lins to RED.ME"`

You can fix this by using the `--amend` tag

`git commit --amend -m "Adding lines to README.md"`